# Discussions

In this work, I analyzed Disney movie directors and tried to calculate the total gross and average gross (adjusted for inflation) of the movies they had directed. What I discovered was suprising. The director with the highest gross (adjusted for inflation) was David Hand who directed Snow White and the Seven Dwarves in 1937. Snow White is the oldest movie in the Disney Database!

It is quite suprising that Director David Hand and his movie Snow White topped the list. My guess would have been something from the new generation of Star Wars or Marvel films, such as Star Wars Episode VII or The Avengers. Star Wars and Marvel are extremely popular in today's pop culture scene, while Snow White has been largely out of the public eye for decades. While these movies did very well, their combined total (~1.6 billion) doesnt even come close to the adjusted gross for Snow White, which came in at 5.2 billion.  

I guess there is just no subsitute for the classics!

One cavieat that should be pointed out is that David Hand only has one credit to his name. While most movies on the list grossed well into the multi-millions, there are a handful that grossed poorly (relatively speaking) and may have brought average calculations down. I tested this theory by taking the director with the highest number of movies creditited to his name, Wolfgang Reitherman with 9 movies, but one movie outlier with a $0 gross. As you can see from the chart above, Wolfgang came in second. I believe this accurately discribes his body of work as he has directed some of the most iconic Disney movies such as 101 Dalmations and The Jungle Book, he also has the lowest grossing movie on the list, The Many Adventrues of Winnie the Poo. Although, it appears that this movie may have never been released as the gross revenue reported is $0. This may or may not be true, but nonetheless, it would have brought Wolfgang's average calculation down. 
